.TH PBEDIT 1 "March 2026" "pbedit 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pbedit \- macOS clipboard manipulation utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbedit
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pbedit
is a command-line tool for reading, writing, and transforming macOS clipboard contents.
It provides quick access to clipboard operations that would otherwise require multiple steps in GUI applications.
.PP
When invoked without arguments,
.B pbedit
defaults to the
.B get
command, printing the current clipboard contents to stdout.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B get
Print clipboard contents to stdout. This is the default command.
.TP
.B set \fI[text...]\fR
Set clipboard contents. If text arguments are provided, they are joined with spaces.
If no arguments are given, reads from stdin (useful for piping).
.TP
.B edit
Open clipboard contents in the editor specified by the
.B $EDITOR
environment variable. After editing, the modified content is saved back to the clipboard.
.TP
.B trim
Remove leading and trailing whitespace and newlines from clipboard contents.
.TP
.B upper
Convert all clipboard text to uppercase.
.TP
.B lower
Convert all clipboard text to lowercase.
.TP
.B replace \fIpattern\fR \fIreplacement\fR
Perform regex find/replace on clipboard contents.
.I pattern
is a regular expression, and
.I replacement
may include capture group references ($1, $2, etc.).
.TP
.B app
Launch the PBEdit menu bar application.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Print clipboard contents:
.RS
.nf
pbedit
pbedit get
.fi
.RE
.PP
Copy text to clipboard:
.RS
.nf
pbedit set "Hello, World!"
echo "piped content" | pbedit set
.fi
.RE
.PP
Edit clipboard in vim:
.RS
.nf
export EDITOR=vim
pbedit edit
.fi
.RE
.PP
Transform clipboard text:
.RS
.nf
pbedit trim
pbedit upper
pbedit lower
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find and replace with regex:
.RS
.nf
pbedit replace "\\bfoo\\b" "bar"
pbedit replace "(\\w+)@(\\w+)" "$1 at $2"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pipeline example (copy file contents, transform, use):
.RS
.nf
cat file.txt | pbedit set
pbedit trim
pbedit upper
pbedit get > output.txt
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR
Used by the
.B edit
command to determine which editor to launch. Common values include
.IR vim ", " nvim ", " nano ", and " code .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (invalid arguments, missing EDITOR, regex error, etc.).
.SH MENU BAR APP
The
.B pbedit app
command launches a companion menu bar application that provides:
.IP \(bu 2
Quick clipboard preview in the menu bar
.IP \(bu 2
Global hotkey (Cmd+Shift+E) to open a floating editor panel
.IP \(bu 2
One-click text transformations (trim, uppercase, lowercase)
.PP
The app can be installed to ~/Applications using:
.RS
make install-app
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Applications/PBEdit.app
Menu bar application bundle.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/pbedit
CLI executable (after make install-cli).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pbcopy (1),
.BR pbpaste (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/rchatham/pbedit/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Reid Chatham
